server/src/main/resources/chat/instructions/5_defining_the_reasons.md, before:

# Defining the reasons for report change

## Step 1. Collect the natural language reason provided by the user:

```json
{
  "action": "{{USER_ACTION}}",
  "message": "<your question to the user about providing reasons for the report change>"
}
```

## Step 2. Transform reason.

- Transform each reason using the "{{TRANSFORM_REASON}}" function. The function will return a JSON object with "
  reasonId" and "message".
- See the "Transform reason" instructions below.

## Step 3. Show the transformed reason to the user:

- The value of "message" should be included in your response to the user.

```json
{
  "action": "{{USER_ACTION}}",
  "message": "<your message including the transformed reason>"
}
```

## Step 4: Receive cornerstone status from the system:

- After a reason has been transformed, you will receive an input from the system indicating that there may be
  cornerstone cases to review.

```json
{
  "Cornerstone": "<name of the current cornerstone case to review>",
  "Index": "<index of the current cornerstone case to review>",
  "Total": "<number of cornerstone cases to review>"
}
```

## Step 5. Ask for further reasons:

- Keep asking for further reasons until the user indicates they do not want to provide any more reasons.
- If the number of cornerstone cases to review is greater than 0 after the last reason was transformed, follow the
  instructions "Allowing or Disallowing the change to the Cornerstone Case report", else follow the instructions "
  Completing the report change".

## Step 6. Allow the user to remove a reason:

- If the user indicates that a reason be removed, output the following:

```json
{
  "action": "{{REMOVE_REASON}}",
  "reasonId": "<reason id of the reason to remove>"
}
```

- After a reason has been removed, you will receive an input from the system indicating that there may be
  cornerstone cases to review as per Step 4.
- Inform the user that the reason has been removed and ask for further reasons:

```json
{
  "action": "{{USER_ACTION}}",
  "message": "<your message indicating that the reason has been removed and asking for further reasons>"
}
```

## Step 7. Allow the user to see all reasons:

- If the user asks to see the reasons entered so far, list them to the user as a numbered list with one reason per line,
  for example:

```json
{
  "action": "{{USER_ACTION}}",
  "message": "1. <first reason>\\n2. <second reason>\\n3. <third reason>"
}
```

Commit message:

- fix prompt to only commit a rule once the user has finished adding conditions - remove delay after chat cucumber scenario - create separate class for KBReasonTransformer.kt so it can be tested - add cuke to verify the model can identify an attribute with a misspelled name

server/src/main/resources/chat/instructions/5_defining_the_reasons.md, after:

# Defining the reasons for report change

## Step 1. Collect the natural language reason provided by the user:

```json
{
  "action": "{{USER_ACTION}}",
  "message": "<your question to the user about providing reasons for the report change>"
}
```

## Step 2. Transform reason.

- Transform each reason using the "{{TRANSFORM_REASON}}" function. The function will return a JSON object with "
  reasonId" and "message".
- See the "Transform reason" instructions below.

## Step 3. Show the transformed reason to the user:

- The value of "message" should be included in your response to the user.

```json
{
  "action": "{{USER_ACTION}}",
  "message": "<your message including the transformed reason>"
}
```

## Step 4: Receive cornerstone status from the system:

- After a reason has been transformed, you will receive an input from the system indicating that there may be
  cornerstone cases to review.

```json
{
  "Cornerstone": "<name of the current cornerstone case to review>",
  "Index": "<index of the current cornerstone case to review>",
  "Total": "<number of cornerstone cases to review>"
}
```

## Step 5. Ask for further reasons:

- Keep asking for further reasons until the user indicates they do not want to provide any more reasons.
- If the number of cornerstone cases to review is greater than 0 after the last reason was transformed, follow the
  instructions "Allowing or Disallowing the change to the Cornerstone Case report".
- Only after the user indicates they do not want to provide any more reasons, follow the instructions "Completing the
  report change".

## Step 6. Allow the user to remove a reason:

- If the user indicates that a reason be removed, output the following:

```json
{
  "action": "{{REMOVE_REASON}}",
  "reasonId": "<reason id of the reason to remove>"
}
```

- After a reason has been removed, you will receive an input from the system indicating that there may be
  cornerstone cases to review as per Step 4.
- Inform the user that the reason has been removed and ask for further reasons:

```json
{
  "action": "{{USER_ACTION}}",
  "message": "<your message indicating that the reason has been removed and asking for further reasons>"
}
```

## Step 7. Allow the user to see all reasons:

- If the user asks to see the reasons entered so far, list them to the user as a numbered list with one reason per line,
  for example:

```json
{
  "action": "{{USER_ACTION}}",
  "message": "1. <first reason>\\n2. <second reason>\\n3. <third reason>"
}
```
